.TH "dcmpssnd" 1 "20 Dec 2005" "Version Version 3.5.4" "OFFIS DCMTK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.nh
.SH NAME
dcmpssnd \- Network send for presentation state viewer
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.PP
.nf

dcmpssnd [options] config-file target study [series] [instance]
.fi
.PP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \fBdcmpssnd\fP application is invoked by the Grayscale Softcopy Presentation State Viewer and is not intended to be invoked manually. The application reads the common configuration file which is shared between the different components of the viewer, attempts to establish a DICOM association with the selected target and, if successful, selects the required DICOM instances from the viewer's database and transmits them using the DICOM storage service class, which is supported as SCU. When transmission is finished (successfully or unsuccessfully), the application terminates. This application supports the same storage SOP classes as the \fBstorescu\fP utility, but does not support encapsulated transfer syntaxes. See the full conformance statement for further details.
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.PP
.nf

config-file  configuration file to be read

target       symbolic identifier of send target in config file

study        study instance UID of study in database to be sent

series       series instance UID (default: send complete study)

instance     SOP instance UID (default: send complete series)
.fi
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.SS "general options"
.PP
.nf

  -h  --help
        print this help text and exit

      --version
        print version information and exit

  -v  --verbose
        verbose mode, print processing details

  -d  --debug
        debug mode, print debug information
.fi
.PP
.SH "COMMAND LINE"
.PP
All command line tools use the following notation for parameters: square brackets enclose optional values (0-1), three trailing dots indicate that multiple values are allowed (1-n), a combination of both means 0 to n values.
.PP
Command line options are distinguished from parameters by a leading '+' or '-' sign, respectively. Usually, order and position of command line options are arbitrary (i.e. they can appear anywhere). However, if options are mutually exclusive the rightmost appearance is used. This behaviour conforms to the standard evaluation rules of common Unix shells.
.PP
In addition, one or more command files can be specified using an '@' sign as a prefix to the filename (e.g. \fI@command.txt\fP). Such a command argument is replaced by the content of the corresponding text file (multiple whitespaces are treated as a single separator) prior to any further evaluation. Please note that a command file cannot contain another command file. This simple but effective approach allows to summarize common combinations of options/parameters and avoids longish and confusing command lines (an example is provided in file \fIshare/data/dumppat.txt\fP).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.PP
The \fBdcmpssnd\fP utility will attempt to load DICOM data dictionaries specified in the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable. By default, i.e. if the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable is not set, the file \fI<PREFIX>/lib/dicom.dic\fP will be loaded unless the dictionary is built into the application (default for Windows).
.PP
The default behaviour should be preferred and the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable only used when alternative data dictionaries are required. The \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable has the same format as the Unix shell \fIPATH\fP variable in that a colon (':') separates entries. The data dictionary code will attempt to load each file specified in the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable. It is an error if no data dictionary can be loaded.
.SH "FILES"
.PP
\fIetc/dcmpstat.cfg\fP - sample configuration file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBdcmpsrcv\fP(1), \fBstorescu\fP(1)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (C) 1998-2004 by Kuratorium OFFIS e.V., Escherweg 2, 26121 Oldenburg, Germany. 
