.TH "dcmprscu" 1 "20 Dec 2005" "Version Version 3.5.4" "OFFIS DCMTK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.nh
.SH NAME
dcmprscu \- Print spooler for presentation state viewer
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.PP
.nf

dcmprscu [options] [filename_in...]
.fi
.PP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \fBdcmprscu\fP utility implements the DICOM Basic Grayscale Print Management Service Class as SCU. It also supports the optional Basic Annotation Box and Presentation LUT SOP Classes. The utility is intended for use within the DICOMscope viewer.
.PP
The \fBdcmprscu\fP utility takes complete print jobs consisting of a Stored Print object and one or more Hardcopy Grayscale objects and spools them to the printer. No attempt is made to check whether the attributes defined in the Stored Print object are supported by the Print SCP. However, the print spooler will not attempt to use the optional Annotation or Presentation LUT services if they are not successfully negotiated with the Print SCP.
.PP
The \fBdcmprscu\fP utility reads the characteristics of the printer to communicate with from the configuration file. Depending on the printer's support for Presentation LUT, any Presentation LUT present in the print job will be rendered into the hardcopy images before they are spooled to the printer if necessary. If the printer does not support image transmission with 12 bits/pixel (as per the configuration file), the grayscale hardcopy images are down-sampled to 8 bits/pixel before transmission to the printer.
.PP
The \fBdcmprscu\fP utility can be run either in 'printer mode', in which case the file name of a Stored Print object must be passed, or in 'spool mode', in which case commands are read periodically from a spool directory.
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.PP
.nf

filename_in  stored print file(s) to be spooled
.fi
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.SS "general options"
.PP
.nf

  -h  --help
        print this help text and exit

      --version
        print version information and exit

  -v  --verbose
        verbose mode, print actions

  -d  --debug
        debug mode, print debug information

  +d  --dump
        dump all DIMSE messages to stdout

      --noprint
        do not create print-out (no n-action-rq)

      --session-print
        send film session n-action rq (instead of film box)

      --monochrome1
        transmit basic grayscale images in MONOCHROME1
.fi
.PP
.SS "mode options"
.PP
.nf

  +p  --print
        printer mode, print file(s) and terminate (default)

  +s  --spool  [n]ame: string
        spooler mode, use job prefix [n]
.fi
.PP
.SS "processing options"
.PP
.nf

  -c  --config  [f]ilename: string
        process using settings from configuration file

  -p  --printer  [n]ame: string (default: 1st printer in cfg file)
        select printer with identifier [n] from cfg file

.fi
.PP
.SS "spooler options (only with --spool)"
.PP
.nf

      --sleep  [d]elay: integer (default: 1)
        sleep [d] seconds between spooler checks
.fi
.PP
.SS "basic film session options (not with --spool):"
.PP
.nf

      --copies  [v]alue: integer (1..100, default: 1)
        set number of copies to [v]

      --medium-type  [v]alue: string
        set medium type to [v]

      --destination  [v]alue: string
        set film destination to [v]

      --label  [v]alue: string
        set film session label to [v]

      --priority  [v]alue: string
        set print priority to [v]

      --owner  [v]alue: string
        set film session owner ID to [v]
.fi
.PP
.SH "COMMAND LINE"
.PP
All command line tools use the following notation for parameters: square brackets enclose optional values (0-1), three trailing dots indicate that multiple values are allowed (1-n), a combination of both means 0 to n values.
.PP
Command line options are distinguished from parameters by a leading '+' or '-' sign, respectively. Usually, order and position of command line options are arbitrary (i.e. they can appear anywhere). However, if options are mutually exclusive the rightmost appearance is used. This behaviour conforms to the standard evaluation rules of common Unix shells.
.PP
In addition, one or more command files can be specified using an '@' sign as a prefix to the filename (e.g. \fI@command.txt\fP). Such a command argument is replaced by the content of the corresponding text file (multiple whitespaces are treated as a single separator) prior to any further evaluation. Please note that a command file cannot contain another command file. This simple but effective approach allows to summarize common combinations of options/parameters and avoids longish and confusing command lines (an example is provided in file \fIshare/data/dumppat.txt\fP).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.PP
The \fBdcmprscu\fP utility will attempt to load DICOM data dictionaries specified in the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable. By default, i.e. if the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable is not set, the file \fI<PREFIX>/lib/dicom.dic\fP will be loaded unless the dictionary is built into the application (default for Windows).
.PP
The default behaviour should be preferred and the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable only used when alternative data dictionaries are required. The \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable has the same format as the Unix shell \fIPATH\fP variable in that a colon (':') separates entries. The data dictionary code will attempt to load each file specified in the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable. It is an error if no data dictionary can be loaded.
.SH "FILES"
.PP
\fIetc/dcmpstat.cfg\fP, \fIetc/printers.cfg\fP - sample configuration files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBdcmprscp\fP(1)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (C) 1999-2005 by Kuratorium OFFIS e.V., Escherweg 2, 26121 Oldenburg, Germany. 
