.TH "dcmqridx" 1 "20 Dec 2005" "Version Version 3.5.4" "OFFIS DCMTK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.nh
.SH NAME
dcmqridx \- Register a DICOM image file in an image database index file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.PP
.nf

dcmqridx [options] index-out [dcmimg-in...]
.fi
.PP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \fBdcmqridx\fP ulility registers DICOM image files in the database index file used by the \fBdcmqrscp\fP and \fBdcmqrti\fP applications. No image files are copied. \fBdcmqridx\fP can also list the contents of the database index file.
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.PP
.nf

index-out  storage area for the index file (directory)

dcmimg-in  DICOM image file to be registered in the index file
.fi
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.PP
.nf

  -h  --help
        print this help text and exit

      --version
        print version information and exit

  -v  --verbose
        verbose mode, print processing details

  -d  --debug
        debug mode, print debug information

  -p  --print
        list contents of database index file

  -n  --not-new
        set instance reviewed status to 'not new'
.fi
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
.PP
\fBdcmqridx\fP attempts to add a reference to the database index file for each image-file provided on the command line.
.PP
\fBdcmqridx\fP disables the database back-end quota system so that no image files will be deleted.
.SH "COMMAND LINE"
.PP
All command line tools use the following notation for parameters: square brackets enclose optional values (0-1), three trailing dots indicate that multiple values are allowed (1-n), a combination of both means 0 to n values.
.PP
Command line options are distinguished from parameters by a leading '+' or '-' sign, respectively. Usually, order and position of command line options are arbitrary (i.e. they can appear anywhere). However, if options are mutually exclusive the rightmost appearance is used. This behaviour conforms to the standard evaluation rules of common Unix shells.
.PP
In addition, one or more command files can be specified using an '@' sign as a prefix to the filename (e.g. \fI@command.txt\fP). Such a command argument is replaced by the content of the corresponding text file (multiple whitespaces are treated as a single separator) prior to any further evaluation. Please note that a command file cannot contain another command file. This simple but effective approach allows to summarize common combinations of options/parameters and avoids longish and confusing command lines (an example is provided in file \fIshare/data/dumppat.txt\fP).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.PP
The \fBdcmqridx\fP utility will attempt to load DICOM data dictionaries specified in the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable. By default, i.e. if the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable is not set, the file \fI<PREFIX>/lib/dicom.dic\fP will be loaded unless the dictionary is built into the application (default for Windows).
.PP
The default behaviour should be preferred and the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable only used when alternative data dictionaries are required. The \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable has the same format as the Unix shell \fIPATH\fP variable in that a colon (':') separates entries. The data dictionary code will attempt to load each file specified in the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable. It is an error if no data dictionary can be loaded.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBdcmqrscp\fP(1), \fBdcmqrti\fP(1)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (C) 1993-2005 by Kuratorium OFFIS e.V., Escherweg 2, 26121 Oldenburg, Germany. 
