.TH "termscu" 1 "20 Dec 2005" "Version Version 3.5.4" "OFFIS DCMTK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.nh
.SH NAME
termscu \- DICOM termination SCU
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.PP
.nf

termscu [options] peer port
.fi
.PP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \fBtermscu\fP application implements a Service Class User (SCU) for DCMTK's private Shutdown SOP Class. It tries to negotiate this private Shutdown SOP Class with a Service Class Provider (SCP) which (if this feature is implemen- nted) will immediately shutdown after refusing the association. The appli- cation can be used to shutdown some of DCMTK's server applications.
.SH "PARAMETERS"
.PP
.PP
.nf

peer  hostname of DICOM peer

port  tcp/ip port number of peer
.fi
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.SS "general options"
.PP
.nf

  -h    --help
          print this help text and exit

        --version
          print version information and exit

  -v    --verbose
          verbose mode, print processing details

  -d    --debug
          debug mode, print debug information
.fi
.PP
.SS "network options"
.PP
.nf

application entity titles:

  -aet  --aetitle  aetitle: string
          set my calling AE title (default: ECHOSCU)

  -aec  --call  aetitle: string
          set called AE title of peer (default: ANY-SCP)

other network options:

  -pdu  --max-pdu  [n]umber of bytes: integer [4096..131072]
          set max receive pdu to n bytes (default: 16384)
.fi
.PP
.SH "NOTES"
.PP
.SS "DICOM Conformance"
The \fBtermscu\fP application supports the following SOP Classes as an SCU:
.PP
.PP
.nf

PrivateShutdownSOPClass  1.2.276.0.7230010.3.4.1915765545.18030.917282194.0
.fi
.PP
.SH "COMMAND LINE"
.PP
All command line tools use the following notation for parameters: square brackets enclose optional values (0-1), three trailing dots indicate that multiple values are allowed (1-n), a combination of both means 0 to n values.
.PP
Command line options are distinguished from parameters by a leading '+' or '-' sign, respectively. Usually, order and position of command line options are arbitrary (i.e. they can appear anywhere). However, if options are mutually exclusive the rightmost appearance is used. This behaviour conforms to the standard evaluation rules of common Unix shells.
.PP
In addition, one or more command files can be specified using an '@' sign as a prefix to the filename (e.g. \fI@command.txt\fP). Such a command argument is replaced by the content of the corresponding text file (multiple whitespaces are treated as a single separator) prior to any further evaluation. Please note that a command file cannot contain another command file. This simple but effective approach allows to summarize common combinations of options/parameters and avoids longish and confusing command lines (an example is provided in file \fIshare/data/dumppat.txt\fP).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.PP
The \fBtermscu\fP utility will attempt to load DICOM data dictionaries specified in the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable. By default, i.e. if the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable is not set, the file \fI<PREFIX>/lib/dicom.dic\fP will be loaded unless the dictionary is built into the application (default for Windows).
.PP
The default behaviour should be preferred and the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable only used when alternative data dictionaries are required. The \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable has the same format as the Unix shell \fIPATH\fP variable in that a colon (':') separates entries. The data dictionary code will attempt to load each file specified in the \fIDCMDICTPATH\fP environment variable. It is an error if no data dictionary can be loaded.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (C) 2005 by Kuratorium OFFIS e.V., Escherweg 2, 26121 Oldenburg, Germany. 
